All right and what we did before we had our AC circuits however we only had one resistor and one capacitor
so is pretty straight forward.
I now want to look at what happens if we have more complicated RC circuits but we're not going to do
all of the differential equations in the calculus.
Well we're going to do is we're going to analyze two time limits.
We're going to analyze the behavior of the current in the short time limit.
So that's immediately after you close the switch just after you close the switch what happens.
What is the current.
For example in this circuit and also what happens after a long time.
OK.
We saw in our charging and discharging cases after a long time the current goes to zero for example.
But again we only had one resistor and one capacitor what happens if we have something more complicated.
So I've illustrated just one more complicated one more complicated circuit here on the left hand side.
So here I have two resistors and I also have a capacitor here that is in parallel with the 8 ohm resistor
that's connected to a power supply.
So now you can ask yourself where I'm going to close the switch and I want to look at what happens in
both of these time limits.
So the top figure here represents the short time limit.
I'll explain in just a minute.
And the long time limit will be this bottom one.
OK.
So when we're tackling problems like this if you remember the charging case previously in that short
time limit we actually had a lot of current initially.
And the reason you have a lot of current is the capacitor in the short time limit basically behaves
as though it's not there.
It's as though there's a wire connected here.
So the way we represent that on a circuit diagram in a short time limit what I would do I would suggest
is you redraw the exact same circuit except wherever there is a capacitor you simply shorted out.
You don't have to even draw the capacitor but you do have to draw the wire that connects the two points
where the capacitor was located.
So you see here between nodes seen I had a capacitor of six micro Feraud and now I simply connect that
with a wire with basically no resistance.
In the long time limit however what you end up doing here because in the long time limit remember what
happens are capacitors become fully charged.
In this case and that means when they become fully charge there's not going to be any more current flowing
in branches where there is a capacitor.
The way we represent that in circuit diagrams if we don't want any more current flowing in long time
limit what you do is you simply produce a break in that in that part of the wire.
So don't include the capacitor and just basically disconnected.
When we do something like this is basically means that the resistance here of this guy here is very
very big.
So there will not be any current now flowing between points Siham point D here there's going to be a
lot of current.
But here there's not going to be any good.
So whenever you're dealing with short and time limits short and long time limits this is how he suggests.
So now let's do the analysis for each one of these cases.
So how much current is there in each branch.
Well you would apply Kirchoff's laws again in this case here I'm going to limit my math a little bit.
I want to first what happened so I imagine here we're going to initially have some current Let's give
it a color here current is going to flow away from the positive toward the negative.
Now what happens when this current which flows through this forum resistor reaches the junction where
is it going to go.
Well is it going to go through the 8 ohm resistor or is it going to go through the path where there
is no resistance.
All right.
And although you have to be a little bit careful here if you try to simplify this and write this as
an equivalent resistor because this case is really zero.
So you just got to be careful that you take the limit then you take it properly OK.
Basically this whole network now all of the current that's here there is no reason for it to go through
the path where there is resistance.
You'd rather go through the path where there is no resistance.
So it's simply all going to go out through that outer branch the current here in the center branch.
This guy here one is going to be equal to zero because there is resistance here there is no voltage
drop across here.
Right.
Going between seeing point D There is no voltage drop across there because there's no resistance.
So that means that there can't be any voltage drop across.
Point being.
E.
So if there's no voltage drop across an 8 ohm resistor The only reason you can have that the voltage
drop across the 8 ohm resistor equals to zero.
Well think about it the resistance multiplied by the current one.
So you have to have that the current I want equals zero.
So that's it.
So this simply becomes a single loop circuit where we simply have one battery one TMF and one for ohm
resistor.
So the current I can easily be calculated in this time limit simply going to be 12 divided by four.
We're going to have three amps.
So you're going to have three amps in that short time limit.
All right.
How about now the long time limit.
Well in the long time limit.
Now again we have basically an infinite resistance.
So we initially set up a current here and current going to flow through this form resistor I've closed
the switch.
Now it's been a long time.
Once the current reaches this junction right here what's going to happen well is the current McGlinchey
going to go through the infinite resistance.
No there can't be any current flowing out here.
So this current out here let's call it current Aitu must be equal to zero.
Because the resistance is infinite.
So that means all of that current is flowing through this forum resistor flowing through this 12 volt
battery must flow down here through this 8 ohm resistor.
It's go ahead and just fill in that into our diagram here and that's it again in a long time limit for
the circuit.
We simply have a single loop.
However now we have two resistors that are in this loop.
These resistors are in series with one another the equivalent resistance is 12 ohm So that means and
this time limit the current that we're going to get it to it in a different color here.
So the current I simply going to be 12 divided by our equivalent That's 12 over 12 is going to be equal
to 1.
So we initially had 3 amps and then we're eventually going to get to 1 amp.
Actually if you look at the middle branch right middle branch the initial current was 0 and then the
final current was 1.
And if you look at the outer branch in the outer branch the initial current was three and then it went
towards zero.
So keep that in mind each branch has its own different characteristic right.
The current through the battery started out at three and then it eventually went to one.
So when you mean the short and long time limit short on long time limits I mean what does that mean
in terms of actual time.
How many seconds is that.
In this case it's not very clear what exactly that time limit means but it's typically if you compare
it to some characteristic time scale and a characteristic time scale again you wouldn't know which resistance
to use.
But it's kind of the RC time constant This will give you a pretty good indication whether you use 4
or 8 or whether to use the value of the capacitance we would use six.
But just gives you a rough idea of how many you know kind of an order of magnitude estimate of what
the long and short time scale means for this particular circuit.
It's not exact in this case.
When we have more resistors and more capacitors you can't simply write it as just one value of resistance
one value of capacitance.
You'd have to find what the values of the capacitance in the resistance are that you would use in this
equation.
But just to give you a rough idea it's still going to give you an order of magnitude estimates of what
the long and time limits actually mean for this case.
All right.
So that's the basic analysis technique whenever you're faced with any complex RC circuit.
If you're only interested in these time limits here this is the approach to use simply short out the
capacitor and the short time limit.
And basically
produce an open circuit in a long time limit.
OK so let me just write that down.
Here is an open circuit where the resistance is infinite.
And here it's a shorted circuit
where the resistance is zero.
All right.
Good job everybody.
Hope you understood that.